SE-ResNet Model for Disfluency Classification

The model is a supervised deep learning model that can detect and classify filler words and disfluency in audio data. 
The audio data first goes through a preprocessing step to convert wav files to spectrogram image format, serving as the AI model input in a NumPy array format. 
The model’s architecture consists of different layers of Neural networks forming a deep neural network connection. 
The input is fed into Eight different Layers of SEResNet block each of which is classifying different disfluency. 
Each of the SERestNet Model followed by a BLSTM layer and an Attention layer.

The SEResNet Block is a Squeeze Excitation Residual CNN layer. 
This Squeeze and Excitation layer is an attention mechanism that is most widely used for performance improvements. 
The network basically introduces a novel channel-wise attention mechanism for CNNs (Convolutional Neural networks) to improve their channel interdependencies. 
The network adds a parameter that re-weights each channel accordingly so that it becomes more sensitive towards significant features while ignoring the irrelevant features.

Squeeze and Excitation Network basically scale each channel's information. 
It reduces the non-relevant channel information and the relevant channel are not much affected. 
So, after the whole operation, the feature map only contains the relevant information, which increases the representational power of the entire network.
The Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) used the convolution operator to extract hierarchical information from the images.

This block is followed by the Bidirectional LSTM block (BLSTM). LSTM stands for Long Short-Term Memory.

LSTM is a Gated Recurrent Neural Network, and bidirectional LSTM is just an extension of that model. 
The key feature is that those networks can store information that can be used for future cell processing. 
We can think of LSTM as an RNN with some memory pool that has two key vectors:

- (1) Short-term state: keeps the output at the current time step.
- (2) Long-term state: stores, reads, and rejects items meant for the long-term while passing through the network.

In bidirectional LSTM, instead of training a single model, we introduce two. The first model learns the sequence of the input provided, and the second model learns the reverse of that sequence. Both models are combined in a multiplication mechanism/mode. 

The final output of the model is the attention layer. A mechanism that can help a neural network to memorize long sequences of information or data can be considered the attention mechanism.

With the model trained on about 9000 input audio data in 30 epochs, an accuracy close to 95% is to be expected.
